1) Regularly Monitoring and capturing system log files.

2) Regularly Monitoring and capturing data of server CPU , memory usage

3) Regularly monitoring Filesytems space.

4) Regularly monitoring capturing Network usage.

5) Writing automated scripts to handle routine user and sysadmin tasks.

6) Users Management and Support

7) Taking backup of Important filesystems.

8) Maitaining documentation for system paramters and disk layout.

9) updating with new technologies

10) Educating and training users and subordinates if applicable.

regards,

U.SivaKumar


Innovations are made when conventions are broken

6)you can use the "top" or "sar" in between time , if you dont have the glance plus software

Daily check on the backups

Daily Check on Server status, mostly looking at servers with alerts/warnings (usually via a monitoring tool)

Package deployments and support thereof

Looking into disk and storage issues
Looking into memory and performance issues

Work on tickets. This usually means working on tickets whose importance is set to medium and low.

Check every Server is working Perfect, Check Backup fully completed  or any error, update patches , create/Delete/Edit user Account, create/delete/edit user permissions, audit and notification Network and systems

Set repository and Install packages and update to its stable version without losing any data.

Create, Delete and modify user and groups
Must be comfortable with CLI, and perform a major task using CLI.
Manage file system permissions for users and groups and apply system policy.
Must be aware of all system configuration file and keep a backup of it.
File sharing for Windows and Linux ( samba, NFS )
Should be able to work remotely without GUI and understating of SSH.
Must have good knowledge of shell scripts, without shell scripting you can’t be a good system admin.
Keep a record of changes and able to solve the problem quickly.
Troubleshoot memory issues, compile rpm and init scripts

Setting up the server for Application Team – So another team will work on it like DB, HA, Web team.

Health Checkup

A typical day starts by going through all the mails triggered by monitoring tools and fixing any reported, then opening all the monitoring dashboards in the browser.

keep an eye on server and application health

1 )Based on Project Requirement , We Build servers (VM Creation or Physical Server) and  Install OS on servers . it is better to explain which tool we use to create Kickstart

2) Most of the Enterprise they use LDAP/NIS for the centralized authentication so you can say Managing User Accounts in LDAP . Managing servers to add into LDAP/NIS Domain

3)Installing Monitoring Agent   and Backup Application

Working on Tickets  -

Example Tickets ,

Server Load Average is high

Memory Usage is High

Unable to Login to Server

Disk Space Full

Network is dropped





